### Day 10

#### Part 1

The pipes are always forming a loop in the end. Even though the S blocks the view of the pipe underneath, it is still possible to manually examine the position and hardcode the correct pipe inplace. 

Since both sides lead to the same complete loop, start from either direction to find all useful pipes. Instead of parsing the whole map, only differentiate from empty space and the useful pipes, other redundant information can be discarded. Count the length of the loop, divide by 2 and we have the answer.

#### Part 2

Initially I was oblivious of the leaking pipe situation, and just went on to floodfill (which I call infest). Starting from every border of the 2-D grid, every empty space is marked as infested, for every uninfested empty neighbor mark them as infested. Replace the border empty spaces with newly infested tiles, repeat until no more tiles are infested. The "infested" tiles are outside of the loop, and minus the pipes, what's left are the inside tiles.

And I was confused when this method gives a wrong result. After reading the problem statement again, I realized the pipes are leaking in between, resulting in some tiles being outside despite graphically enclosed by other pipes.

My solution is to double the resolution of the grid. We double the size of the grid, double the coordinates of pipes, put new "|" and "-"s in between supposed connections, and leave the rest empty. The leaking pipes can be easily exposed. With the same floodfill algorithm to determine outside tiles, and only counting tiles that are corresponding to original tiles, the problem is solved.
