### Day 21

#### Part 1

To reduce time complexity, we should avoid visit the same tiles (that are in the center). When taking a new step, old steps should be ignored (but we know they are there), since only the border tiles lead to new tiles.

Starting with S, simulate 64 steps, and for each new tile appeared in even steps add 1 to a counter. The result is the counter's final value.

#### Part 2

To model the infinitely expanding map, I introduced a new struct Meta, which consists of a meta coordinate and a normal coordinate. The meta coordinate indicates which map, in respect to the original map, any tile is at, and the normal coordinate indicates the relative position of tile within that map.

And to model 26501365 moves? Not possible to do individually. There are simply too many tiles to keep track of.

If you look closely, you will find out there is a conveniently positioned cross of clear path around S, and S is at the exact center of the map. This definitely tells something about the existence of a pattern.

One way to put it, is that for each direction, the steps reach a new map at the same time. And each new map start with those fixed positions. For new maps with 2 steps entering, the steps still cross at the center at the same time. We can deduce the pattern changes over a period equaling to the length/width of the map (i.e. 131).

We can turn to the step count at an interval of 131. Because my implementation only counts even/odd steps at a time, a half of them are not related. Therefore we change the interval to 262.

According to the observation, after some time, every 262 steps the step count grows by a number, and this number changes linearly over each 262 steps. To sum up, the step count with an interval of 262 is determined by a quadratic function. In other words, the derivative of the step count every 262 steps is an arithmetic progression.

Cast modulo on our big number, 26501365 = 101150\*262 + 65, or 26501365 = 202300\*131 + 65, we should observe the 65th step and every 262 steps forward. I find the AP to be: `a[0] = 90676; a[n] = a[n-1] + 90676 + (n-1)*120720`

Find when n=101150, and there is our answer.
