### Day 24


#### Part 1

Firstly I know there is a NetworkX library in Python, and I have used it before for my school project of "Subgraph Isomorphism Counting". Leaving Python long ago, I have to control the urge to come back and rely on the library's oneliners. On the other hand, I had no idea how to approach this problem, I tried concatenating \>3 connection groups, it works for the example but not the real input. I tried starting from two random nodes and expand as groups until they meet each other's group with exactly 3 connections. After failing all attempts and unable to come up with anything new, I conceded and checked reddit. It is true many people with NetworkX gives a quick solve using its `min_cut()` function, and there are people who just visuallized the graph with tools, manually ban the 3 edges, split the graph and get the result. This is the method I will turn to.

The tool mentioned is GraphViz, a great graph visualization software, and it took me some time to figure how to use it correctly. You will need a dot file containing the definition and composition of the graph, which I got from simply regex replacing some lines from the input. The graph is a mess until you call the command `dot -Tpng` with additional parameter `-Kneato`, which specifies the "neato" layout engine. Neato.

And props to people who solved without libraries and external softwares. I just don't have the patience to learn those min-cut algorithms on Christmas day. If one day I am interested, at least I know I can look up Karger's algorithm and all.

#### Part 2

Just push the button already!
