### Day 7

#### Part 1

Being obsessed with RegEx from earlier days, I somehow still tried to make it work in this puzzle. In order to find mutiple occurences of the same card, I have to backtrack using RegEx syntax like `\1`, which is not supported in Golang's regexp implementation.

Yes, I fell for the RegEx meme and doubled down on it, I then installed a regex library with proper Perl syntax to make it work, while I absolutely do not have to.

Then there is another problem, the cards are not in order, to insist RegEx usage will make the query patterns messy. Therefore I made a function to sort hands based on the rank of each card, this way the matching patterns are much nicer. The only exception is Full House, and alternatively its condition is being both a Three of a Kind and a Two Pair.

I like my witty method of ranking hands: firstly sort by hand type, and for hands with the same type convert the (original) hand into a numerical representation. The number is like a Hexadecimal, but with poker cards. Since only the original order of hand (not composition of the hand type) determines the hand's rank, sort those hands with the number in descending order. And here we have the answer.

#### Part 2

The best strategy with Jokers is to always treat them as the most common non-Joker card in hand, therefore regex replace them and regex match them shows the optimal hand type. The only exception happens here is when the hand is full of Jokers, i.e. JJJJJ. This hand should be the smallest Five of a Kind.

Still, after sorting with the new hand types, for hands with the same type, sort with the converted points, but this time Js are worth 0 in the conversion. The rest should be pretty straight-forward. (b...but straight is not a valid hand type in camel cards?)
