### Day 23

#### Part 1

Pathfinding with negative weight/longest path is an odd concept. Normal pathfinding algorithm likely works, but the lack of open spaces in the map hints DFS as a better idea. Starting from the top-left, disallowing backtracking, most of the time there is only one way forward. When a choice is required, branch on those options. Those threads are terminated either when a dead end is reached, which does not account for a finished hike, or when the destination at bottom-right is reached. We then rank the finished hikes with steps and find the longest hike. The dead ends reduce the context complexity by a lot, which is reintroduced as a problem in part 2 -

#### Part 2

I did not realize how much time is spent on traversing long Snake-esque corridors before checking reddit. The problem is, even if they do not introduce new branches, they are being traversed multiple times unnecessarily. Since the workload here is a multiplication of branches and path length, by simplifying the corridors we can effectively reduce the workload by times.

I saw some people reduced the map into a network of nodes and edges, with the corridors as edge weights, and crossings as nodes. While I did my changes based on part 1, I modified the function finding neighbors to skip the corridors as if there are wormholes teleporting from one crossing to another. The wormhole tunnels are implemented in a datatype of `map[Coord][]Move`, which returns possible next moves given a pair of current coordinates.

What's left is to populate the map of wormhole tunnels. Just for convenience, an addition to part 1 records down the coordinates of each crossing visited and last crossing. This method is heavily reliant on assumptions, with the potential to miss connections that are not reached in part 1 (blocked by slopes). Additionally, multiple connections between two nodes can also be mistaken as the same, this won't matter most of the time, except when crossings can be missed by one-way connection with a dead end routing back. Thankfully none of these happened.

Everything except the neighbor function should be the same as part 1. It works, and much faster.
